---
layout: default
title: Preprocessor Directives
permalink: docs/CPP/preprocessor
parent: CPP
---

# Preprocessor Directives

## An Overview of Preprocessor directives (a.k.a pragmas)

Preprocessor directives are lines included in the code of programs preceded by a hash sign (#). These lines are not program statements but directives for the preprocessor. The preprocessor examines the code before actual compilation of code begins and resolves all these directives before any code is actually generated by regular statements.

These preprocessor directives extend only across a single line of code. As soon as a newline character is found, the preprocessor directive is ends. No semicolon (;) is expected at the end of a preprocessor directive. The only way a preprocessor directive can extend through more than one line is by preceding the newline character at the end of the line by a backslash (\\).

## Macro definitions (#define, #undef)

To define preprocessor macros we can use #define. Its syntax is:

#define identifier replacement

When the preprocessor encounters this directive, it replaces any occurrence of identifier in the rest of the code by replacement. This replacement can be an expression, a statement, a block or simply anything. The preprocessor does not understand C++ proper, it simply replaces any occurrence of identifier by replacement.
```cpp
#define TABLE_SIZE 100
int table1[TABLE_SIZE];
int table2[TABLE_SIZE]; 
```

After the preprocessor has replaced TABLE_SIZE, the code becomes equivalent to:
```cpp
int table1[100];
int table2[100]; 
```

#define can work also with parameters to define function macros:
```cpp
#define getmax(a,b) a>b?a:b 
```

Defined macros are not affected by block structure. A macro lasts until it is undefined with the #undef preprocessor directive:
```cpp
#define TABLE_SIZE 100
int table1[TABLE_SIZE];
#undef TABLE_SIZE
#define TABLE_SIZE 200
int table2[TABLE_SIZE];
```

This would generate the same code as:
```cpp
int table1[100];
int table2[200];
```